[ready for review] NEW CHAPTER - Adding Project Cycle (#4167)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/project-design/pd-overview/pd-overview-cycle.md

(pd-overview-cycle)=
# Project Cycle

The success of any project relies on effective management and a clear project cycle. In this chapter, we’ll walk through the main phases of the project cycle, from initiation to closure, highlighting the essential steps in each stage. For researchers, programmers, and practitioners, following a structured approach to project management helps you get the best results and make good use of your resources.

---
name: project-cycle-ethical-checks

> alt: A simple diagram showing the main stages of a project cycle: initiation, planning, execution, monitoring, and closing

Reviewer: Could the alt-text be more detailed here?

Author: Yes, I have expended it!

> alt: A simple diagram showing the main stages of a project cycle: initiation, planning, execution, monitoring, and closing

Author: ```suggestion
alt: A diagram illustrating the main stages of a project cycle: initiation, planning, execution, monitoring, and closing. The project manager moves through each stage, with examples provided for each. Initiation includes the project charter, governance, and contracts. Planning covers the IP register, delivery plan, and logical models. Execution involves project boards and budget management. Monitoring features reporting and forecasting. Closing highlights project legacy.
```

Author: @Arielle-Bennett, how about this ALT text?

---
The Turing Way project illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: [10.5281/zenodo.3332807](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.8169292).

## Initiation

The initiation phase sets the stage for the project by defining its purpose, scope, and objectives. If you rush this stage, you risk undermining the project’s outcomes. Here are some key parts of project initiation:

> - **Project Charter**: This document describes the project’s vision, objectives, stakeholders, and main deliverables. It acts as a reference point for decisions throughout the project. You can find a [Project Charter Template on Smatcheet]([https://github.com/pm4id/project-charter-template](https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/project-charter-templates-and-guidelines-every-business-need?srsltid=AfmBOorD2-FX1O7z5HiFoWzOezc772oUUEJjE3PSliHYTuuH1dWDAueF)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Project Charter**: This document describes the project’s vision, objectives, stakeholders, and main deliverables. It acts as a reference point for decisions throughout the project. You can find a [Project Charter Template on Smartsheet](https://www.smartsheet.com/blog/project-charter-templates-and-guidelines-every-business-need?srsltid=AfmBOorD2-FX1O7z5HiFoWzOezc772oUUEJjE3PSliHYTuuH1dWDAueF) or here [https://github.com/pm4id/project-charter-template](https://github.com/pm4id/project-charter-template).
```

Reviewer: Addresses the failing CI check
